So if I do this right, I will share my screen and And I will.
Yes.
Troy, can I ask you a question 1st before you can? Is it true like the background for this?
What Ferrona told me is that you had a financial modeling kind of part to you taught at Kellogg and then you realized that these founders could really use it so you wanted to share is that the background.
Yeah, so here's what's happened. You guys have most of you saw my financial modeling big talk right that we did a few what 4 weeks ago or something like that right Yeah.
Yeah, just about.
And it turns out that that's a little daunting for some people. And, and so I've reworked my entire financial modeling talk to start with this part, which you're gonna see, it evolves and I'll share with you at the end of the talk how it evolves into something that looks a lot like Dollar Cave Club, but I am retiring dollar cave club.
Wow.
Alright, so you can see my screen. I'm gonna start rolling again. Alert stuff out this is for you it's not for me don't be shy and jump right in.
So again, I believe that financial modeling is a cheat code for operating a business. I always like to start with the objectives.
This is the same. So that you saw before. I want you to see the power financial model, run your business better, raise money more easily, everybody wants to do those things.
I'm gonna give you some takeaways and the same resources page that you saw before. Boom.
So why should I care? Do you want to run your business better? Do you wanna make raising capital easier?
Do you want to make your business more predictable? Predictable is really, really, really important.
In business. And a good model will help you that. And then I give the example I gave last time, which is if you knew you were going to grow 20%, you could do great.
If you knew you're gonna do 200%, you could plan for that. You could do great.
But if you plan for 20% if you plan for 200% growth and you got 20% growth you're screwed.
And by the way, if you plan for 20%, you get 200%. You're also in big trouble because you don't have enough inventory to have enough customer service.
So, and then we talk about financial models have to be dynamic. I'm going super fast because you guys have been exposed to this in the last financial modeling stuff.
But you know the world we change in, we operate in changes all the time. This is why I say the only thing I know for sure about a model is it's wrong because the minute you the economic conditions change.
The new technologies come out. I mean, think about how fundamentally different AI has made so many things that were, you know, in the last 18 months.
Competitors come out, we have global pandemics, right? So no matter how accurate it was when you started, it's it's never going to be perfect.
But we can build a model that can change as conditions change. So I'm gonna start with my simple example.
This is the new content for you. So I want to be an entrepreneur. I love coffee. Who likes coffee?
I see some hands. Okay, not everybody. Damn. I make the best coffee.
I got this special secret ingredient and I want to sell my coffee. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a lemonade stand, except I'm gonna sell coffee.
So I'm gonna picture like a little table, some boiling water and a yeti thermos pour overs.
It's awesome. And I make better coffee. Everybody I share with it loves it. And I want to be an entrepreneur.
See, but to quit my day job, I need to be able to pay the bills. And I need 5 grand a month.
That's what I need. And so I have to figure out. How much coffee do I need to sell to make my minimum?
How do I figure that out? Anybody have an idea? How many cups of coffee do I have to sell to sell my minimum?
To make my minimum make 5 grand.
That's on the
Did, because, and then,
Model that out.
Yep.
Yeah, exactly. It depends. So we're gonna cut over to a spreadsheet in a second.
I have to switch my sharing because I haven't optimized this really for. Unfortunately, I haven't optimized this for zoom but let's do it so i'm gonna share my screen again and I'm gonna walk through.
I want this one. All right, share. Boom. All right, so here's the deal.
You guys should be familiar with this. Blue is inputs, black or calculated. I got some inputs on my coffee.
It turns out that, you know, I can buy coffee for 12 bucks a pound.
Pound of coffee makes 32 cups, so I divide those 2. You can see I did the math here and I get it cost me 38 cents worth of coffee in a cop.
My secret ingredients, which I can't tell you what it is, but that's a 6th sense.
The lid, the cream, the sugar cost me 77 cents to make a cup of coffee. So Now, let's take a look at what I sell the coffee for.
So if I sell the coffee for 2 50. And it cost me 77 cents. I'm left with a buck 74.
There's some rounding because they're fractional pennies. It's close enough.
Trust me. And, and so it's a buck 74 is what I make on each cup of coffee.
Now I said I wanted to make 5 grand. So in order to make 5 grand, I take the 5 grand.
I divide by the 1 74 and I get 2,882 cups of coffee a month.
I can't get my head around that. So I divide by the 26 days a month I plan on working.
That's a hundred 11 cups a day. I can't get my head around that.
So I divide by the 8 HI plan on working a day and that's 13.9 cups of coffee per hour.
So what this has told me Is that in order to make a business that can pay me 5 grand? I have to sell 13 cups of coffee over 14 cups of coffee an hour and I think that's too much.
I don't I could do that on busy hours but I'm not gonna sell that at. 2 o'clock in the afternoon, 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
So I think my business is gonna fail. I'm gonna just quit, right?
Cameron, why are you shaking your head? Why shouldn't I quit?
We can increase the amount of profit that you would make on your cup of coffee in order to allow It's hours a day you work.
Sure. So, sure, so I could do something like I could lower the, I could buy cheaper coffee.
I'm gonna buy $10 a pound coffee instead of $12 pound coffee. Oh, well that didn't make much of an impact.
It went from 13 9 to 13 4. I want good coffee. I really like good coffee. What if I if I changing reducing my cost didn't help much.
What else can I do?
Increase the sale price.
How much should I charge for my coffee?
$4.
Yes. Depends.
$4 $4 a cup and now I only have to sell 7 cups of coffee an hour That feels more manageable.
That's like one every 9 min, 10 min. That feels manageable to me. As a matter of fact, I think that feels good enough.
That I'm willing to go out and actually start working on this business because I now have a target.
That in order to get this business running and break even, I have to sell 7.4 cups of coffee an hour.
I think I can do that. And, and I think it's worth doing. Every single business I have ever started.
I have done this, whether it was on a simple spreadsheet like this. Or it was on the back of a napkin or it was on a whiteboard.
This is the 1st step I take. Now, I'm gonna show you 2 more examples. I see there are some questions in the chat.
No, I got you. It's good.
What's the chat say? Okay, got it. Okay, you're watching me.
All right. I may give you 2 more examples. So if you remember, I started a company called Sure Payroll.
So sure payroll, it looks sort of like this. We, doing this one differently. I'm not doing it per month.
I'm doing this per year because we have some expenses and so in my expenses, so our expenses are basically moving money between accounts.
And so the number of employees that a customer has. Dictates how many accounts we have to move back and forth.
So the average we looked up in the public filings, the paychecks had 14 employees in their average customer.
I did a little math about how many transfers that is because there's some for taxes and other things.
It's number of employees plus a constant. It costs us about 3 cents an ACH, so 60 cents a payroll.
The average customer runs 20 payrolls per year. So that's 12 bucks in cost of moving money around.
That's not very much. But then I had some other costs. So here's my I brought my 12 bucks over here.
Let's start at the top. I know that I'm charging on a per employee basis. I put this little formula in here.
Was 1995 plus 50 cents a pay an employee. I know we're running 20 payroll so that got me my revenue.
And then my costs. I pull the cost over from here and then I had the customer service. I'm estimating it was 3 HA customer service a year at 25 bucks an hour.
That's 75 bucks. So my total cost is 87. So I make 4 50. Per customer per year.
Well, I have some fixed costs here, some file servers, some couple of developers, a controller.
I needed to put an office for them. That's about 450,000. So in round numbers if I have to cover $450,000 and I make 4 50 and contribution margin I need basically a thousand customers.
Does this make sense to everybody? Alright, I'm gonna give you one more example. Different one and this is a mobile app and at Apple.
Yeah.
We have a How did you come to the estimate on customer service hours a year?
I made that shit up. But it's an input. So if I'm wrong, it's a great question.
I just tried to like pencil it in what I thought it was gonna be. I'm like, well, you know, in the 1st month, they'll probably need an hour customer service.
Maybe, I don't know. It is a wild ask yes. You know, but if If I'm off by factor 2.
It's actually not that big a deal. Cause it went now I doubled my customer service hours and now I need basically 1,200 instead of a thousand.
But I can see the sense that the beauty of this is I could see the sensitivity. So that was an excellent, excellent question.
By the way, I didn't tell you the rest of the story. The rest of the story was we started processing payroll.
And it turned out we didn't average 14 like paychecks did. We average 6 employees per we ended up skewing towards a smaller customer base who had 6 employees like, oh no, I'm screwed.
I'm gonna have half the revenue. But it turns out I can just type in a 6 here.
This is real like this is what happened. Like, oh crap, we're only averaging 6.
Oh, you know what? It's not that bad. My revenue went down. I don't make 4 50 anymore.
I make, you know, 3 77. And again, it comes out to about 1,200. So it was a 20% difference in how many customers I needed.
It wasn't a hundred percent difference. You see how even in this very simple one tab. This is a dynamic model where I have inputs and I have outputs.
Alright, let me show you the 3rd example. A basic iPhone app. So this time I did it.
It says annual, but it's really lifetime because most. IPhone, most consumer facing iPhone apps don't.
You know the monthly, the subscription is well under a year. But anyway, so this time I said, well, I gotta pay to acquire the customer, my variable expenses and I put in 25 bucks for customer acquisition.
Have to pay Apple tax. Of 30%, right? So that's based on what my revenue.
I guess I should update that to say average. You can tell this is my MVP. And I guess that should say average also.
So anyway, so, so I had that a charging 9 99, the average customer stays 5 and a half months.
So I make a total of 54 95. Times the 30 cents gets me the cost. Here you can see it that gets me the Apple tax.
So I've cost the $41. I had revenue of 54, so 54 minus 41 gets me 13.
So I make 13 bucks on each customer. I have some servers for the back end. I said I've got some developer cost.
I've got to pay the found or something. So I need $250,000.
If I'm only making $13 a customer I need 18,000 customers. Can I get 18,000 customers?
I don't know. It also quickly gets you some levers here. If you realize if you're gonna, if you think you only can charge 5 99.
Oh, I lose money on every customer. I'm out of business. Like the math doesn't even work.
It comes up to negative, 127,000 customers. That's because you have a negative like it.
You're out of business, right? If Your churn is such that your average customer only stays 3 months.
You're out of business. Like you see that you can play with some of these levers. So here's what I wanna do.
What I want to do at this point is I want, 1st I want to take questions on this. Now what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna re-share my screen with all 3 of these examples.
The simple coffee stop. That sure payroll in the basic mobile app and I want you each to build Take 10 min and build your version of this.
How many customers, how many transactions, how many subscription? I don't know what your businesses are, they're all different.
Do you need to break even and I think most of you are gonna be sort of similar to Let's payroll where you have some costs.
Of delivering your service that could be API calls for the AI engine, whatever it could be. You have some amount of revenue.
You subtract out all of your costs that are variable costs. That gets you a contribution margin per customer.
And then you have some things that you need to keep the doors open. This is the indirect cost.
Or overhead cost, then you figure out how many of those transaction subscriptions etc, you need to take to break even.
Does this make sense? Any questions about the assignment? And then what we're gonna do is I'm gonna have like like a couple of you share these and say, oh, I had a lot of problems.
I didn't understand. Here's how my business works. And there's gonna be a bunch of learning around.
This very basic feasibility. Valerie.
Hey, I have kind of like a, okay, so our business model, we sell shipping labels and so How do we go about doing it when it's dependent on, yes, the number of customers we get, but also the number shipping labels we need.
Like.
Well, one of your assumptions is how many shipping labels does a customer have. Does your average customer have, right?
Okay. Yeah.
So you're trying to figure out your, I'm just setting up right now the other, windows so that we can.
See all you'll be able to see all 3 of them on your screen at once. And then I need one more.
So yes, do you have that just like I had an assumption of how many employees do I have? Per customer in the payroll business.
Because we charge more based on the number of we charge based on the number of employees you would have how many shipping labels does the average customer buy.
Right? Does that make sense?
Okay. Yes.
Okay.
And since Valaria has, real customers already, should she just pull the average that's like that exist?
So for this exercise, I would encourage you to not spend the waste a lot of time on researching averages, but rather to just put in what your best guess is.
Later on, you'll be able to more important is that you get the math correctly, correct? Later on, you'll be able to tweak it and put your actual more precise numbers in.
So I'm going to share my screen so that you can see all 3 models. They might be a little small.
I apologize, but you can see all 3 now. I'll try to make them a little bigger for you.
And and take we're going to take literally will take 12 min and i want you each to build a model Like this for your business and then we're gonna we're gonna have one at a time.
We're gonna have a couple of you guys share and we're gonna talk through. All right, go.
Feel free to hit me up in a chat if you have questions.
Yeah, there's 1 question in the chat. So go ahead and start guys, but Jeremy asked, can you show the formula for the total contribution margin?
Those are.
Yeah, so in this one, it's just a sum of revenue minus total cost. And oh wait, do I have the same one up?
I have the same one up twice for my simple coffee stand. Oops, I gotta shrink this, sorry.
You know, contribution per cup is again revenue minus cost. And, and then for basic mobile app, I, sorry, I didn't.
I got 3 copies up. I just didn't switch to the various tabs. Again, it is gonna be.
Your total revenue minus your variable costs. So it's the same in all 3. It's revenue minus variable costs.
Right?
Trying to arrange these so they can be as big as possible.
Okay.
It's, it's legible how it is right now. If you just click in everyone since it's, overlap.
Perfect. Yep.
Yep, so like that. Alright.
This looks really simple on the surface and I think you're gonna find it's more difficult than you thought.
And the fun part, Lilian, is I'm gonna randomly pick people to share. How about that?
That's always fun.
Keep them on their toes.
Got a lot Roy. Oh yeah.
Yeah. Better make sure you're building it.
Also doesn't need to be perfect. The whole point of Yeah.
Okay. No, it won't be perfect. And don't worry about putting pretty boxes and making it look nice.
Like I just don't worry about that.
Yeah, like Troy said, the business school, he has them right on a whiteboard. So you could even like write this out.
Well, I mean really though Troy like what you want like everybody here should be chomping at the bit to get your eyes on their model and feedback.
Yeah, I mean
Yeah. Make my business better, please help me.
Thanks so. I'm a little biased though, Neil.
How many, minutes do we have left for them?
Okay, we're gonna go, sorry, we started at 48, so we're gonna go to the top of the hour to give them 12 min, so.
You got 7 and a half minutes left.
Perfect.
Alright, you should be thinking about wrapping up.
Oops.
Troy, is there meant to be a document over some of this? Okay.
Oh, I don't know why that came up. Sorry. That's I'll move it.
1 min left everybody.
Thanks. I should have moved it earlier.
Alright, you guys ready? Who wants go first? st
Valeria, awesome. I will stop sharing.
And you can share.
Okay, awesome. Let me hold on, share my screen.
And I would actually love it if your peers are the ones who are making more of the comments than me, but Let's see what happens here.
Okay. Very. Here's what I came up with for the variable. Yeah.
Hello, start start with a 10 second overview of what your business is because try to.
Okay, yeah, we sell shipping labels to small businesses on Instagram. So we just help them ship out their products back, faster and they just buy USPS shipping labels from us.
Okay.
And then, so I looked at the variable expense for transactions. They cover the payment processing costs and then we're about to switch over to a shipping program that actually won't have a label API cost, a shipping program that actually won't have a label API costs because they make revenue off of the shipping labels they sell to us as like a label API cost because they make revenue off of the shipping labels they sell to us as like a commission from
USPS. Customer for right now. Then in the contribution margin section, I looked at the revenue per label sold.
So we earn 30 cents on every shipping label sold. The average label sold per transaction is 6.7.
So we earn about $2 and one cents per transaction. And then the average number of transactions they do in a month is 4 and the average lifetime.
I didn't have time to look that up, was 5.5. I just like copied it from you and I was like, Oh sure, that sounds about right.
And so the average revenue I earn a year per customer is.
Can you click into that cell? The 44 22 nope
This one. Yes. So I did, The revenue per transaction times 4 transactions a month times of average lifetime of 5.5.
Yep, great.
So we got $44 and 22 cents. Minus the cost of good soul, says $41.
Okay.
Per customer. And then I looked at gross profit to cover weekly overhead. And so for founders, there's 2 of us, so I did like a hundred 50 for 2 people and then we spend around Yes.
So annual overhead.
Okay, it says weekly. That's why.
Yep.
And so. Oh my god, sorry, I was playing around with different things. And so then, we spend around 10,000 on like front end developers because it's me and a CTO.
Yeah.
So he does most of the development work. And so the estimate of like tenk development work. And then, for operations, I just like didn't have time to crudge everything.
But I was like, sure. Like, like the website API we pay for, was $90.
I started the email, the email API or service we pay for is that. Yeah.
Yeah, it'll go up over time. But so you basically need about 4,000 customers. To break even here and how are you acquiring these customers?
You had a customer cost of $3 that seems really low to me.
So right now all of our customer acquisition is organic, but we just launched an ambassador program where any ambassador who enjoys using us like reps us and then if someone signs up using their link they earn $3 and shipping label credits.
And that's how I got that.
Got it. So do you think you can get to 4,000 customers organically?
Yes.
Awesome. Well, Leanna has her hand up.
Yeah, why is b 7 0? The labels really cost nothing.
Well, right now they cost like. 3 cents per label like the API fee, but then we're gonna move over to easy post and then the 1st like 100,000 labels you ship with or like.
Generate through them. There's 0 API fees and then they're going to we're looking at like getting a unique deal with them where we might not have to pay those API fees.
Interesting. Yeah, that's not how I thought it worked. That's cool.
Awesome. So there are a couple people with hands up.
Help.
How volunteering to go. Questions?
I think they're volunteering to go. Is anyone asking something or commenting on Valerius?
Just take that.
Please give me feedback guys.
So, you know, I think you're, I think this is really interesting. So before you did this, did you have in your head that you needed 4,000 customers to break even?
No. No.
Did you have any idea how many you needed to break even?
Nope.
Okay, this is a number you all should have in your head that you should it'll change over time and you'll refine it.
But you can now start updating these numbers. And this is. This is just like to get a feasible business.
Like if this number had come out to say a hundred 1,000, you would have been like, oh damn.
Right? Like, and then you would have had to rethink your business model for either need to make more money and need to reduce cost, etc.
But I think this is a really great 1st step. So thank you for being the 1st one to share.
Thank you.
That was awesome. Lilian, you wanna manage this? Who's next?
Yeah, You can go next.
Maria, you're really quiet. Is there a way to make your talk louder?
Right, thank you everybody. I'm going to share my screen. Oh, yes, I'm so sorry about that.
Yeah, it's faint.
Yeah, you're probably picking up the wrong mic or something.
I upon.
Yeah, he has a very intense setup, so I'm sure it's just like.
Well, while he fixes it, Troy, I was just gonna say that and this might be true with your experience too.
I know a lot of founders merit in particular who like to put that number up somewhere like physically. And they like to like track their progress towards it exactly.
Yeah, it's like a goal.
That's a very common thing the founders do.
Yeah.
That's static.
No, it's staticy and nasty.
It's different. It's different.
Is this better? No. Okay, and I'm so sorry, I don't know what the issue is.
We can hear you from the other one. Just go back to how it was before. It's okay.
I, we could hear you.
Yeah, you just might need to speak, you might need to project project your voice, which we know you're very good at.
Okay, that's better.
Not with that one, the other Mike. The other mic.
Yeah, no, that's the one. Yep.
Okay Alright Hello everybody. Okay. The this is this is the same okay doesn't matter all right so okay we have a bit of a weird case because we have 2 different revenue streams we have subscription and transactional revenue so a quick overview of the business we help musicians make more money they pay us a subscription to use our services and we also enable some extra transactions at their concerts that they couldn't have done otherwise.
So we take 10% of every transaction and we take $30 as a subscription. But because about the 3rd of our users are annual, the average revenue per user from subscription is actually $21 when you blend the 2 together.
Can you make bigger? Can you just like zoom?
Thank you.
Yeah. Yes, I can make it very much bigger, yes. Okay, where do we start? Troy, would you like me to walk you through this?
Yeah.
Okay, so 1st of all, I came up with this KAC out of my behind. We've never done paid ads, so I don't know what this would be.
Right now it's 0, but let's assume that we do something like that. So I don't know, $40.
Yep.
A transaction fees is not what we charge is what Stripe and Shopify and all the other providers that we work with charge us in transactions.
That comes out to an average of this when you consider how many there are generally on average per month and what the value is of each one.
Okay.
We take 10% so our total take take rate from GMV of $612 per user would be something like 61.
When you combine that with the average subscription price times the number of lifetime months you get $420 from subscription $61 from a transactional so this is wrong serious 61 plus Oh yeah, because this is a monthly, sorry, and I was just switched into yearly there.
That doesn't actually matter. It's 21 plus 61 equals 82. And then our variable expenses are these ones per user C 9 is over here.
So this this total cost per user, so a total contribution margin is this much per user per month.
So if we pay ourselves much more actually than we pay right now, 75 K per year comes out to 12 and a half for each founder per month and let's say $500 in all the subscriptions that we use and the servers and all the other stuff that is $13,000 per month so we would need 545 customers to cover that.
However, a lot of these numbers are kind of made up. 12 transactions per month? Well, if we have a great artist, that could be 120 transactions a month. Boom.
Could be $100 in total transactional value. But maybe in this case we need $100, maybe we need $200 to get this user.
I don't know. We might need $2,000 to get this users because it's a VIP.
So yeah, this is highly dependent on a lot of different inputs.
Yeah, and I, so I think this is great. I think that you will play with these.
I'd encourage you to do some color coding so you know what's an input, what's a formula like I did the blue in the black, you can do whatever colors you want.
And then what you want to do is focus on which of these variables really matter? Do a sensitivity analysis.
So which of the variables when you change them, oh my god, they have a huge impact on my on my numbers and which of them don't really matter so much.
Yeah.
And have a small impact on my numbers. And, and I think that's how, and then you're gonna go run some real world tests.
To see like what's gonna act. So you know if I go back to my coffee one I could have put into the formula I'm gonna charge $50 for a cup of coffee and it would have looked really good on the spreadsheet.
But I'm not gonna be able to sell coffee for $50. So just because it says it on the spreadsheet doesn't mean you can do it in the real world.
Yeah.
And so this is your opportunity to start to ask questions and be like, what do I think? You know, how do you find out what the average transactions per month are?
How do you find out if your 10% take rate is a fair take rate? Can you get 20%?
Because if you can get 20% It's gonna more than cut in half. So let's just try this.
I am predicting that if you take your 10% change it to 20% you're going to be down to not half a 545, but something under 200.
Look at that 1 52.
Huh. Amazing.
If you would think it was twice because, but it's not because you have this cost of the transaction that didn't change.
So this is why these numbers matter. And I think you did an awesome job. I would love to see you refine this and go out to the real world and figure out what some of these real numbers are, especially the KAC.
And Yeah.
Yep.
Yeah. And this is also hard because depending on the type of artist that we work with, it could be, we talk to some people that sell $10,000 worth of merch at one concert that's incredible but most people sell like 200, maybe less.
So yeah.
Yep, yep, but it's giving you an idea of what your levers are.
Amazing.
Good question. Sorry, there's a book in the chat about this. I think do you have to factor in taxes somewhere?
So for those of you who are worried about factoring taxes like income tax, don't worry about it.
You're not going to be profitable. You're not going to be paying income tax for a long time.
And if you are, that is a champagne problem. I hope you're all paying income tax because you're make you have profitable businesses. Very few.
Hmm.
I can't think there's only one business. That I know the only business I can think of that's really paid any meaningful income tax.
That came out of tech stars in any period of time is trading. Do like most of these businesses, you're raising money, you're raising money because you're raising money, you have spent more than you've actually earned because raising money doesn't count as revenue.
So you're actually negative. You're in the hole and then you carry those losses forward into future years.
It'll be a long time before you're paying income tax. Don't worry about it.
If you did, you could just say, 30% or something, but that's later. No one come taxes.
Alright, let's take the next one. Who's next?
Thanks.
And I think if we do 3 of these, maybe we could do 3 or 4. It's up to you, Liliana, but I think you're getting the gist of it.
Yeah.
And, and then I want to take a couple of minutes to tell the rest of the story. So I would love to have 5 min at the end, okay?
Okay, we'll see. We'll see if we can get to you snow, but let's do Antonio.
Antonio high level 10 second. What does aware do?
Yeah, it's a wearable a couple with an app that measures your stress and anxiety and gives you actionable recommendation to answer your mental well being every day.
So we make money out of a subscription and hardware. With customer acquisition $25 per customer apples.
So you think you're gonna acquire customers for $25 on a $300 wearable?
It's probably well what I was saying is 2 2.5 was that 2.5 Good point $5 per click.
So that would be.
Yeah, and you're not gonna close 10%
Yeah, okay.
Like you should be, so what you should do is go look at some. Companies that have.
Shared this information, whether they're public companies or they've had data but I'm trying to think like Fitbit was a public company you could look up Fitbit and find out what did Fitbit What was their customer acquisition cost?
I'm guessing it was, yeah, you're closer. It might even be higher than that.
Okay.
But anyway, but you'll do that later. And the point of this exercise, by the way, is if your math is correct.
We can plug in new numbers there and then we get better answers like we should focus on getting the math correct.
We know the assumptions are wrong, but all right, great. So this is sort of like my aura ring.
Yeah, exactly.
Right? It's I think my ring is 4 99. The cardboard was about 300 bucks.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly. Cogs are wearable. I mean, yeah, didn't include the here.
This We, it's possible. $50 we have to see for, you know, what once we go to production, I think this number, might, might vary.
But then, here's where I think we can.
Can you what's in B 12? What's the formula and B 12?
Click on click on B 12. Yep.
Got it. Yep.
So I did. And then, so this would be the total contribution margin, so $200 per customer.
Yeah.
And then I put back end, 2 developers front end and back end. To ponders, hardware design, industrial design and packaging shipping.
And I became up with 2,200 customers.
How does that feel to you?
He's actually feels good because in a financial model there was there so many numbers in our function. This gives me an idea of if you want to do a crowdfunding campaign, this is what we need.
So it it looks it looks like
Yeah. Now you have another issue though. So when I look at this, I'm like, 2,000 customers great.
But I have to pay for the manufacturing of 2,000 of these wearables. Right, so that's gonna be, what, $100,000.
I gotta pay upfront probably 6 months before I get any revenue. I'm gonna have to pay for some of this customer acquisition cost, but it gives you an idea of how big the nut is.
This is this is great. All right. We have time, I think, to do snow.
Great. Thank you.
Troy, are you familiar with Runber or have, are you in Starboard?
Okay, yeah, give it 10 second.
I mean, starboard, so let me quickly introduce. Yeah, so we help customers create a custom GPTs and integrate.
Them into their communication platforms such as Slack, Hubspot, Microsoft Teams.
Yeah.
So this is, that really quick, simple financial model. So about the expense.
And again, I wanna, I'm gonna use the term financial viability. As separate from the financial model.
Bye.
The model is when we start looking forward and doing all the stuff we did. With dollar cave club so this financial ability.
Anyway.
Yeah. Thank you. So, the expense, we haven't, tried the, so, we don't know the number of.
Customer, but I put in $100 for here. And we recently decided to provide some of the Open AI coast.
So free tokens to the customers. So we edit some of that coast. Per customer. So annually, we expect $200 per customer.
And about the contribution margin. So our average subscription fee is $99. And then we have around 10.
Percent monthly turn rate. So, oh, it's not the dollar, so it's it's a .
Huh. Yeah, percent. Number. Yep.
Yeah Yeah, and there's a revenue can be $990 and the variable, subtracting variable, you got the 790.
Yep.
Server, this is not the actual number, so we just put the tenk. And the, the salaries.
So overall overhead is 270 K. So we
So how are you gonna get customers for a hundred bucks? Like, cause that has to include. All of your call, I think you're gonna have to have salespeople to do this.
I don't, maybe not. Maybe you can do this with just ads and self-service.
That's a good point. So until now we run the content marketing to get the customers, but definitely we need to hire salesperson.
If we hire sales person, do I need to put it overhead or is it for
Well, you have to decide. So is that part of your is that part of your customer acquisition cost or is it part of your overhead.
You, you can decide. There are different ways.
What would be the difference? Because I got a question privately. What that was like, what is the difference between variable expenses and overhead?
I thought it was that one is like more fixed, is that correct?
Yeah, so there is some gray area. So variable or expenses are generally the expenses that go up. As your number of customers goes up.
And overhead is generally the stuff that doesn't really change. So your rent, your CEO, salary that.
And it turns out that with salespeople and with customer service people, it's really a stair step function.
Like you hire one customer service person, maybe they can handle 200 customers and then at some point you hire a second one for the next 200.
So you can treat it either way, but you have to account for it somewhere because you're gonna spend some money on salespeople and I would tend to think that what's gonna happen with your salespeople like I did.
Like I did with. Well, at your payroll, I knew that each salesperson could bring in 15 new customers a month.
And so I knew what my customer acquisition cost was because it was the salary and commission and benefits of a salesperson divided by 15.
And it was way more than a hundred dollars.
Definitely. Yeah.
Now, you may, you're doing something different, so it might be, but now we know, okay, so if I were doing, if I were in your shoes, I'd be like, all right, I wanna dive deep on what it's gonna, I wanna run some tests right now in customer acquisition.
I want to do some, I want to do some, Wizard of Oz tests. I want to do see if marketing can get me like key to this.
I think that number is going to be like 400 500. I mean, b 2 b companies that I have in our portfolio.
That are acquiring customers. Nobody's acquiring them for under 100 bucks. And you gotta figure out that customer acquisition motion, but.
That's where I would be focusing. But I think this is great. So real quickly, are there any questions about this process?
Hopefully you've seen you saw my 3 examples you saw 4 of your peers examples. Does this make sense to you guys?
If you need help, there folks at at tech stars that can help you. I am going to share my screen again.
Quick question for you.
And I'm going to do something. I'm gonna take you through the rest of the the next step in the presentation just Yep.
Does this replace the need for these founders to finish their financial model? Okay, good. And to say it, had to say it.
Oh god no. God no, I'm gonna take you to the next. Yes, alright. So, I'm going to.
Maybe share my screen if I can find here we go share my screen. I have too many windows on one screen now.
Alright. So I'm gonna share my screen and I'm gonna go to back to the deck.
So this was a very simple model. It was easy to understand. It was linear. It was predictable.
If the cost changed, I could change the number of cups I had to sell, right? I could go, but my job now was to go test this against the real world.
So we're back to my coffee cart. Then what happens is The health inspector closes me down.
They're like, damn, you can't do that. You can't sell food outside without a license.
So I realize. To make this business real. I have to go find customers. I've gotta find an indoor place where they're aggregated.
It turns out they're a bunch of large apartment buildings. Everybody needs coffee. I'm gonna install kiosks.
Self serve kiosks with my special coffee in the lobbies of these apartment buildings. But now that's gonna require me to spend about $5,000 in building out physical infrastructure.
I need a $3,500 machine. I have to keep some inventory. I need credit card processing for 3.5%.
They need. I'm gonna run a 12 month trial in each building. So let's take a look at what that looks like.
So here is the model. The viability. Feasibility model that we were just looking at. This is the same one.
All these numbers should look exactly what you're used to. But we've added some things.
You'll notice that I've added in yellow these additional things that I need to put into my model.
But I don't know where they go, cause they don't really go. With variable expenses, they don't really go with monthly overhead.
They're kind of one-time. It's It's weird. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna reorganize these.
Into a different shape. So these are the same numbers on the right. I've just made them look like an income statement.
So we can see that my number of cup sold came right here from my number of cups to sell.
My revenue per cup came right from my revenue per cup. I multiply those 2, I get a total revenue number.
Now it's starting to look like an income statement. My direct expenses. Came by totaling the number of cups times my.
Cost per cup. And I got a gross profit of $5,000. I had operating expenses of $5,000.
So I got 0. That profit. Oh, well that's because that's how we solve for we solve for how many cups do I need to break even to pay myself 5 grand?
Perfect. Now, what do I do with these one-time expenses? So I'm gonna make a time based model.
So here's what I did. What I did was I took that income statement and I said, but before I start up, I've got to buy the build out and I've got to buy the coffee machine.
And now all of a sudden you'll see that I've lost almost $10,000. In the 1st month.
Well that sort of sucks. And you know what else sucks is that I'm losing $1,316.
I wait I thought I was break even. Why am I losing $1,300 every month?
Wasn't I break even? What happened?
Does anybody see?
There is an extra credit card processing thing.
Yeah, I gotta pay for credit card processing that 3 and a half percent. So that's $216.
Where's the rest of it? Turns out I needed a telephone line because I need to telephone into the credit card machine.
And I snuck this in that you actually have to pay taxes on employees. If you add those 3 up, 2 16 plus a hundred plus a thousand is.
1,316. So I'm actually losing 1,300 bucks a month. Oh, well, and this isn't really fair.
I don't want to lose all this money in the 1st month. So there's this magic trick we do in accounting called depreciation.
Where what we do is we decide we're not gonna actually We're not gonna actually charge ourselves for this in one month.
We're gonna charge ourselves for this over the useful life. And so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take this.
5,000 3,500 divide by 12 and charge myself. I'm using air quotes charge myself 1 12 of it each month because it has a useful life for 12 months.
And now what happens is I got a loss of $2,000 every month. But at least it's even.
Okay. Why am I losing money? I thought this was going to be a profitable business. Why isn't this a profitable business?
Is it because of the customer acquisition cost got higher? Add, since you
There's no customer acquisition cost because I'm just sitting in a lobby of an apartment building.
Is it cause the like sales you have is still for that break even without putting those new factors into consideration?
That's true. But what happened here is I have a kiosk that is a self serve kiosk in an apartment building and I'm paying.
A salary for a human being. To maintain one kiosk. That's not very efficient. Right?
I may as well not have the kiosk and have the human being serving the coffee. Right? So it turns out that I should have multiple locations.
So I've taken the same spreadsheet. I've just highlighted in yellow the things that are gonna change.
So if I go to 2 locations, I'm gonna have twice as many sales. Twice as many cost of goods sold, twice as many credit cards, twice as many telephones, twice as much build out, and twice as much equipment.
But you'll notice I don't have to have twice as much salary or taxes because one person can manage 2 locations.
And when I go to 2 locations. I'm profitable because now instead of being effectively charged the full $6,000 in salary for one location, it's split over 2, each one's only charged 3,000 and I get to profitability.
As a matter of fact, one person can do a lot more than 2. Maybe one person can manage 4 locations.
My spreadsheet says one person could manage 4,000 locations. 40,000 locations, whatever number you want.
But that's not gonna happen in the real world. One person can't. I mean, I, it'd be nice.
I'd make $15,000 of profit every month. But let's go to 4. At 4 locations.
One person managing 4 locations with these kiosks. I make $10,000 basically a month. That's starting to feel like a good business.
However, there's a problem.
What's the problem?
I'm running out of time, so. Well, I'm not growing because I'm in a lobby of an apartment building.
It's not growing at all.
The initial cost goes up.
I can't grow. I don't have any way to get customers. So Huh?
As the initial cost goes up, if you increase the locations.
Yeah, and it's not shown on here because we depreciated it. And so we need to look at our cash flow.
And in our cash flow, you'll see that we actually are out of business in the 1st month because we had this pay for $34,000 worth of equipment in the 1st month.
Oh crap, this is why we need to take an investment. So let's say we raised 40 grand.
Now the 40 grand that we raised. Can cover our cost of startup. And then we can actually make money and we turn the 40 grand of investment into a hundred 59 grand by the end of the year.
I don't have time to go through the whole detail with you, but I want to show you there's also a balance sheet in here which shows you You're liabilities.
Here's the 159 grand we just saw at the end of the year. There's some interesting stuff in here where you can see we bought $34,000 worth of equipment.
We have that equipment. But we depreciate or have accumulated depreciation that goes up every month.
Such that by the end of the year we've depreciated the full 34 grand. So on our books we've paid for the equipment and it's worth.
0 on our books right now. So this is the next step. This is, I think, the level of detail you all should be at now.
And I'm gonna share these files with you. The step after this, by the way, as I'm teaching this now, is basically dollar cave club, except what I do is I say, oh, the coffee is so good that people wanna buy it on the internet.
And so I take this business. I start adding a subscription for coffee service. I have Facebook ads, Google Ads, CAC, LTV, Churn, all the things that you had in dollar cave club.
And I get this fancy model that looks just like the dollar cave club model except it's for Angel Street Coffee.
So I don't have time to show you that because I have a call. And I have somebody in my waiting room now, but I will send you.
The DAC, which is not too different than the DECK you had last time. It's just different.
Template. I'll send you the 1st model we used. This model, which is the level I think you guys should be at today.
And then I will send you the 3rd model that we did not review that's going to look complicated.
But it's basically this business adding subscription like dollar cave club on top of it. Alright.
Thank you so much, Trying.
Thank you, Detroit.
I would love feedback if this made sense. I felt a little rush to me. But, this is the 1st time I'm doing this for a Techstars cohort.
Obviously, what I think I want to do next time is do this stuff in the very beginning of of the session.
And then a couple of weeks later, pick it up and say, now here's what it can look like in the future.
And send you the dollar cave club or the more sophisticated model. I gotta run, I apologize.
Show you the best. Thank you.
Thanks.
Good.
Thank you. Bye. Bye.
Thank you very much.
Alright, see you all. Bye.
Who asked that? Okay, Meredith asked a question in the chat. I'll respond to him later.
Thanks everybody